# Future


## Legal/Task Module/Management

#### Message 2
Further to our earlier meeting, the email below captures the updates required to the database.  In relation to Item 2. the monthly report generated from the database data is attached.

Additionally, as indicated we are establishing a contract expiration date automated notification to the contract administrators (persons responsible to monitor the contract).  The contract details are contained in the Legal and Other Requirements Register which is linked to a notification memo word document.  The memo would be generated by email to the contract administrator once the expiration date has arrived.  Your assistance is requested to create a feature within the database whereby this automated email prompt can be sent as required.

As discussed, the following documents are forwarded for your attention.

1.      Document Identification Code

2.      Legal and Other Requirements Register

3.      Memo – expiration date notification.

We are available to provide clarification as required.

#### Message 3
As indicated, the database needs to be updated to reflect the current realities.  The following adjustments are recommended:

1.    Add Document –

a.    General feature:
i.    Document Type options to reflect the revised request types based on the Office’s document identification code.

ii.    Classification options for the various types of contract requests to be re-entered.  These were deleted by Garfield Allen.

iii.    Requesting employee options should be updated to reflect the current employees of the BSJ.

iv.    Requesting department options should be updated to reflect the current departments/units.

b.    Tracking feature:

i.    Status options – “clarification required” to be amended to “clarification requested”.

ii.    An additional option to be added for “completed outside the timeline”

2.    Reporting – this feature currently does not allow for a comprehensive report to be generated from the data.  This ability is strongly recommend as the current process I believe is quite inefficient.  It would reduce the time taken to prepare the monthly report.

Additionally, the programmer’s assistance is needed to develop a Manual for the database so that the knowledge and operation of the system does not reside with one person.  This was an observation from a previous internal systems audit of the Office and as you are aware was communicated as a recommendation for improvement during the Management Review.  This would also enable continuity.

I am available to provide clarification if required.

- Add strategic goals as system options.

## Help Desk

- Implement Help Desk module.
- Look at the system currently used by MIS for ideas.

## Certification

- Features to enhance company certification process to be added.
- NCBJ data re certification process to be imported such as scheduling information, auditor and technical export lists, 
- Tables for Technical Experts, Auditors etc to be included in the database.
- Quotes to be facilitated by the JMTS as they are currently being done manually in spreadsheets.
- Special training required for NCBJ staff as it relates to certification. 
- Automatic generation of forms and letters are required.
- Alerts to be generated when a task in the certification process is due, soon due or overdue.

## Task Management

- Create Task class and allow entry of requests from internal and external clients as tasks. Get ideas from the Legal Office system.
- Enter a default turnaround time or allow entry of specific TAT.
- Alerts when tasks are due or soon due. Multiple alerts can be sent when required action is not taken such as when the task is not marked completed after x days.
- Filter list of tasks based on whether they are externally or self assigned.
- Optionally allow users to request task of other users.

## System Design and Implementation

- Put number of recors found at tp of all search tables.
- Make all dialogs external dialogs and messages. Start with address and contact dialogs.
- Iml "login" in separate in login.xhtml file and make it the default page. Research best practices for implementing login screens.
- Reload page when logo is pressed.
- Job "Edited by" does not seem to be updated when job costing is edited and saved. Fix.
- Get rid of individual business entity searches and implement "search panel" when the various search types. Implement business entity table that displays the search results.
- When the search text is entered, give the search button the focus cause when the enter key is pressed the job dialog comes up for the entry of a new job.
- Move the active checkbox in all dialogs to a consistent location.
- Implement search by "Dept's incomplete jobs".
- Make sure copies of job costing, service contract form are not being created and cashed as seen in the config folder.
- Add clients field to Business class to allow each business to manage their own clients.
- Make growl message for no costing selection for approval and invoicing a warning serverity.
- Put DocumentType dialog in SystemManager.
- Use the method used for editing DocumentType for other objects where the type is copied into currentDocumentType before the dialog is opened. The object is saved when the dialog is "oked" and discarded when "cancelled".
- Add system option to display "Handling keep alive session..." in debugging mode.
- Add colon to form labels to be consistent.
- Add general preference to hide/show dashboard. NB Add field to all databases.
- Remove department from employee. Use the JMUser employee field to get the department whenever user's department is needed.
- Remove all dialogs from index.xhtml and make them external dialogs except the "Connection Error" and "Busy Wait" dialogs.
- Do not allow changing the department to which a job is saved except by sys admin.
- Implement adding a new country to the database by those who have the privilege. 
- Add blob to Business class for storing company logo/banner.
- Create Tracking class that can attached to any class to enable tracking of that class. 
  Fields could include loginDateTime.
- Switch to the corresponding dashboard tab when the corresponding mainview tab is selected?
- Make currency symbol a system option.

## Accounting & Financial Services

- Impl public ReturnMessage save(EntityManager em) in Job class and do explicit save when "dirty".
- Impl copy of cost component.
- Discount is not currently applied to the cost estimate. Allow persons who have the privilege to apply discount to cost estimates such as customer service.
- Implement the max character lengths as system options and set limits on the maximum 
dollar values that can be entered as system options.
- Impl copy of costing component from components table.
- Learn GnuCash inside out including python bindings and how to integrate the JMTS with it.
- Allow anyone in department to mark costing as prepared/completed.
- Prevent creating invoices for child jobs.
- Implement cash payments and use of "get total payments received" and not getDeposit for "Total paid".
- Put close button on upper right of costing dialog.
- At the bottom of the summary section in costing show the names of who approved and who invoiced.
- Add feature to show/hide child jobs from showing in tables specifically for finance. Make it a per user preference.
- Change jobCostingAndPayment.deposit to jobCostingAndPayment.paid and the corresponding database filed? Same for deposit date?
- Job Details on costing needs to pull info from instructions (i.e. special instructions section). Export instructions and not special instructions to contract. Done – instructions are joined with special instructions for now. I suggest that the be properly done when the new form is implemented.
- Check job is marked dirty under all circumstances when payment info is edited.
- Do this to figure out why payment and may be costing info is not being saved.
- GCT to be added only to parent jobs. update all relevant fields when costing is updated.
- Set date costing prepared to cost date in the report for now.
- Report on discounts offered to clients. May need to update existing report to satisfy needs of CIAO.
- Allow marking a non-earning job as completed even with $0.00 final cost.
- Receipt, discount and invoice number are editable by non-finance staff? Change if so.
- Link with accpac asset management feature if possible.
- Apply discount to estimated and final cost. Allow applying fixed and percentage cost.
- Implement option to turn off the charging of tax such as GCT for specific departments.
- Disable invoicing if job is "not earning" and/or user is not from finance.
- Remove the costing date when costing is "disapproved".
- Job costings for subcontracted jobs are being pulled into the costing of other jobs because the year the job was submitted is being changed. Could be solved by preventing the job number and date submitted from being changed manually.
- Append credit terms to payment terms? Get confirmation from Finance.
- Implement setting currency and exchange rates for costing payments.
- Put isdirty in job costing and payment and only save when it is dirty. Only Finance personnel or other designated persons should be able to change invoicing and payment fields by implementing cash payments.
- Add option to remove or include child job costings.
- Dept 52 (standards) should charge GCT of 2% by default. Add "Default GCT" as a setting
- in the department detail...add a tab called "Adanced Options" with a field called "Default GCT" and move "Apply taxes to job costing" privilege to that tab.
- Dynamically add 16.5% gct to labels. Check that job costing shows the correct percentage that is applied.
- Put cost component type in job costing analysis to show if costing is fixed variable etc. 
  or put n/a in the rate and hours/unit column when the cost component type is fixed or subcontract.
- Prevent job costing approval for jobs without a report number?
- Disable "approve checkbox" if person is not dept supervisor or person authorized to approve., invoiced.
- Allow setting min. deposit as percentage or fixed cost. #15
- NB (Put in Wiki): The job costing template is : c:\jasperreports\Job Costing.jasper
- Implement flagging delinquent jobs that have have not been completed or billed for.
- Look seriously at the maximum integer and double values that can be represented 
  by Java and take these into consideration when working with currency and integer values.
- Restrict generation of service contract to an authorized person/department?
  Put client ID# (TRN etc.) into service contract?
- Create tax table and use it similar to gnucash to apply taxes to costs on a departmental basis.
- In CashPayment replace payeeTitle, payeeFirstname and payeeLastname with "Payer/Payee"
  which should be a contact object that is selected from the list of client contacts or a new 
  one created.

## HRM

- Add corporateTitle to Employee class
- To "otherHeads/Leaders" as List<Employee> to Department, Division and Business classes.
- Move management of employee, department, unit, lab and organization to HRM module.
- Deal with issue where persons are assigned to customer service although they don't belong. Implement Division class and use it along with Business (Organization) class to address this issue where the required privileges are assigned to give the require privilege that Customer Service has.
- Ensure that only "activate" departments are retrieved or created to avoid the creation of multiple departments with the same name.
- Check if new departments are being created by the LegalDocumentPortal.
- Add feature to add/remove employees from departments.
- Check out why employees with blank names are being created. The blank employees are linked to jobs so look for clues in the job creation and update process. Look at all senarios where an
- employee could be created. check if creating a new user causes this.
- Dont let newly created employees be active except when created via system admin.
- Delete blank internet and business office created linked to blank employees? Ensure that only "activate" employees are retrieved or created
- Implement assigning a person to more than one department.

## Alert & Notification

- Implement tip o the day?
- Generate and send emails in thread NB: Implemented but to be tested directly and not through VPN.
- Implement a system to alert users if they have the same job opened.
- Alerts to be escalated where necessary if action is not taken in due time.
- Use BPM process to send email to job reps.

## Reports, Queries and Views

- Use "Special Result Types" and "Handling Multiple Result Types" to create
  "smaller" query results return lists and deal with the "slowness" when doing
  job searches. 
- Get rid of SearchParameters in ReportManager etc.
- Implement ReportManagement module that allows searching for reports based on category and description and display the results in a table.
- Implement deactivation of reports and getting only active reports.
- Implement report filtering
- Implement report dialog as a tab that can be chosen in "Preferences"
- Implement editing report details in "System Admin"
- Check on monthly report date periods for duplicates. Note that “This financial year” is not there.
- “Jobs in Period” report not working so fix it.
- Create interface to upload report files to “jasperrreports” or the folder that is designated as the reports folder in system options.
- For report data use left join to get jobs that don't have samples.
- Implement "Earning Parent Jobs Only" search type and make in default for the Finance department.
- Add date costing prepared as a date search field in Cashier View
- Use Dynamic Columns to create views and allow persons to choose any set of columns.
- Find way to save/close job costing and maintain selections in cashier/costing views.
- Need to be able to use the search area in system admin section to search for partial string in any field, not only the name. I may need to list all users from chemistry for examples, thus, i would need to search for chemistry and all users in chemistry would show up in the list.
- Create report that shows workload per staff.
- Use RM.generateReport() to test generating and displaying report in web browser.
- Create links to report in report tab in job detail dialog.
- Implement "Advanced Search" configuration using a database table and not in hard code as is done now. Call table SearchConfigurations or SearchParameters?
- For jasper reports fill in parameters such as images from configuration values 
  stored in the database.
- Fix job search slowness:
  * 

## Standards Compliance Module

- Monthly report should be based on the report Feb_2018_Report (Compliance Dept).xlsx sent by W. Richards.
- Facilitate the "attachment" of documents such as CAC letters to a job record.
- For Daily Report put the client in the Consignments Inspected table.
- Email alert to persons who can approve job costing when a job costing is prepared.
- Error occurs when product is added, survey dialog is closed and survey dialog reopened. Could be because product is null. Save all products with null id when saving survey?
- A link to test/calibration reports should be associated which a job record.
- Add date of survey to compliance connect search in jmts.
- Add search params for compliance survey
- Ask about saving survey when product is added?
- When product deletion is cancelled refresh dialog for compliance survey
- In compliance survey remove job number field and put JOB_ID – ie add a Job class to the survey.
- Do not ask for consignee if there are no samples inspected.
- Fixup saving survey including editedBy.
- Impl report generation – use daily report in conjunction with compliance monthly report for this.
- Remove date in/out field entries.
- Set inspector to “—“ when no product inspection done.
- Fix release notice form.
- Implement auto complete for country instead of combo box.
- Get the latest remote survey from database before creating a new survey in compliance connect mobile.
- Check out adding South Korea/Republic of Korea, Holand, England.
- Format numbers as currency where applicable.
- Update client name on general tab when it is changed on entry doc tab and vice versa.
- DM Notice of/???? tab retailer and other are checked by default. Fix it.
- Let client autocomplete show clients from previously entered survey.
- In product inspection change gategory to category.
- Make sure all generated forms are filled out properly. Start with detention request. When form fields are blank do not show commas: (i) release request: impl authorization.
- Print all forms for inspection: (i) check control numbers (ii) consistency of headers (iii) alignment of text etc.
- Work on standardizing generated forms fix alignment issues.
- Switch to inspection search if no inspection search return 0 records?
- Application for rehab customer name and address to be inserted.
- Do rehab forms. Redesign them first. Fill in form with data – company name, address.
- Get rid of null null wherever it appears.
- Remove the color from all pdf forms?
- Fix up forms so they print on secure paper where required. See marked up form.
- Add all tables/fields to boshrmapp mysql and deploy. Check: ComplianceSurvey, ProductInpsection etc.
- Add product type. Find out the standard product types from Inspectorate and ISO.
- Add validation to all tabs. Eg if “detention request issued” is checked, make sure job number is valid. In other words make sure that all values required for the generation of forms are entered and valid.
- Make sure system options and report records are on the boshrmapp mysql server.
- Check to make sure the number of samples is being exported on the relevant forms as required.
- Find out how billing is done based on percentage of containers detained.
- System outputs: (i) daily report (ii) detention number report (iii) etc.
- Fix number of samples taken???
- Send email alert from within compliance connect
- Adjust POE release request to accommodate header on secure paper.
- Clarify and add size of units in sample request form.
- Create report of detention and other numbers for audit and other purposes.
- Make sure broker detail is included for sample request – port of entry.
- Should port of entry reason for detention be separate from domestic market reason?
- Add fields for detention and release numbers and use in forms. Do generation of numbers when survey is being saved. Use the format given in the procedure.
- When a pdf form is generated, make sure the required *Issued field is set to true and the relevant release/detention number generated.
- Detention release number should separate from detention number. Stick to number format as given in procedure.
- Should inspector number (eg BSJ-07-22) be used instead of inspector name as is done for notice of detention? Consult on this.
- Send email re decisions (such as rotation of inspectors, dry run of system) made in training and recent meetings.
- Set release date null when blank.
- Add fields for port of entry separate from domestic market detention numbers?
- Fix margins so that printed forms fit on secure paper. Get copy of paper.
- CHANGE CONNECTION PARAMS FROM JMTSTEST TO JMTS DATABASE!!!. Implement system option for this.
- Impl feature to add image to form record. Add text field showing uploaded file and allow file downloads. Fix fact that file upload can’t find destination folder for images. Put picture uploading as separate from pictorial representation.
- Check out what is "Size of Units" in "Sample Request - Ports of Entry".
- Port of Entry – Release Request. Remove Prepared by and put another Approved by for automatically generated forms. Prepared by would still be required for manually prepare forms.
- Implement associating customer complaints to a job. Lodging of complaints could also be done via the website.
- Impl dialog for creating business office.
- Link client to training...A feature for ITU of the BSJ. Details to be determined.
- Compliance Connect will be an Android app when the Standards Compliance module is completed.

## Accpac Integration

- Add option to change days to add to invoice date to get invoice due date.
- Accpac invoice due date = DUEDATE(DOCDATE) + 15 days (for example). 1 to x days the invoice should be - marked as current. PI is code for pre-payment and IN is for invoice.
- For credit status show invoice due date and not invoice date?

## Standards Module

- Track the phases in the standards development process and generate alerts where necessary.
- Enter as much information as possible on a DocumentStandard such as date published.
- Existing information of standards that exist in Excel are to be imported.
- Reports on standards such as the standards published within a specific period are to be generated.
- Do research on machine readable standards.
- WTO notification database
- JS and ISBN numbers – automate number creation
- IEC/ISO standards commenting/tracking
- CROSQ – standards databases
- Earnings database
- Conformity assessment/certification
- Registry of companies
- Audit schedule
- CMP database – companies certified and other status
- Registry of all companies registered (see spreadsheets)
- QEMS
- Technical committees database
- Technical regulations/standards list/database/catalogue
- Marketing Requirements for Trade
- Report on standards published.

## Foods Inspectorate

- Implement features and database related to the FDA (to meet with Mrs. Miller concerning this).
- Itinerary generation (based on operations research).
- Items on the itinerary items should be entered as a job.
- Develop costing schedule for traveling.
- Job costing to be linked to inspection sheet and certificates.
- Look at the data required to be captured and to design database
- Look at the fields in the FOOD ESTABLISHMENT INSPECTION REPORT to determine 
  requirements.
- See notes on inspection form: do regs 1-4, sampling inspection type, tie in sample collection form.
- Factory visits should be based on risk assessment.
- Implement track registration from time of request/application to completion: 
see Registration Tracking Sheet (Revised).xlsx: Fields to add to 
Registration class: assignedInspector, dateAssignedToInspector, assigned etc.
- Implement alert 8 weeks before registration due via popup or email to inspector 
and other relevant personnel eg supervisor.
- Implement tracking of application for certificates.
- Lock form upon client signature is affixed to the food factory report.
- System to generate certificates for client.
- Add HACCP recognition programme audit tab in the food inspection form.
- Associate a factory with a client by adding a Client class to the factory class.
- Move pages to web folder under project folder and stop using webpages folder.
- Save inspection form when tab is closed?
- Factory inspection office should default to that of the officer doing the 
inspection if it is not null. Should default to head office if null.
- Find a different solution than using “currentFoodFactory.getAllBusinessEntitiesLists()” 
to save new items added to a list. See how it’s done in ComplianceConnect for example.
- Check if food inspection forms have been merged.
- Develop calendar view for itinerary that shows the planned activity for inspectors.

## Legal Metrology

- "Job" should be tracked from the first phone call to the client to the delivery of service (see process map in vision document).
- Revamp petrol pump database.
- Check if all close buttons work in history dialogs.
- Impl importing petrol stations from spreadsheet: add pump/nozzle certification to petrol station and included expiry date to certification.
- Optionally leave out date period search for petrol stations for example to see how if it affects search speed.
- Change LegalMetrologyManager to LegalMetrologyTester in on PetroPumpNozzle test app.
- Set a one month lead time when for reminders about due date for equipment test/calibration. .
- LPG checking: database to be developed. Details to be obtained later.
- Package checking database to be done.
- Storage tank database. Tank strapping and volumetric.
- Roller weights calibration database. See Calibration Report for roller weights.
- Database for high volume meters from petrojam to be done.
- Application form for calibration of tankerwagon/scales etc. – put online? Get new form. Form should be validated for required fields before saving/printing.
- Client certificates should be automatically generated.
- Update seal,sticker,petrolpumpnozzle tables in all tables.
- Create new sticker/seal record only if the current number entered is unique.
- Do job number assignment in gas pump test tab? Do not allow saving test results until job number is assigned or if the assigned job number is for a job that is completed.
- Create table for petrol types (diesel etc.)
- Allow entering the measure used for a pump/nozzle. Make use of the measures string in nozzles to compute pass or fail and header in the table.
- Change back date recorded to time stamp. Find out how to make the database assign the date and time stamp.
- Impl calculating actual petrol usage by bsj using error readings.
- Do report on pass/reject in test data table or separate table.
- For each job done the value of the job should be subtracted from the deposit made by a gas station.
- Change seal and sticker dates to time stamp.
- Impl adding pumps as samples to a pump test job.
- Impl random testing feature in schedule.
- Create new calibration if the date of the last calibration is different from the current date.
- Create new calibration for a pump if the date is not the current date or the seal has changed???
- Create filtering that shows stations due based on time such as week, 2 weeks, one month etc.
- Create sample report:
- Setup to do importation of data. Use POI. (i) merge independent with other and enter each station as a separate company (ii)implement random selection of pump/nozzle to be tested (iii) keep history calibration information for each pump. (iv) Set number cells that are blank to 0 before doing importation.
- How is random scale testing done?
- Check out petrol sampling log and testing. How is it done and where is the report?
- Impl adding/editing classification elements (eg sector) in job entry form or department form. Only persons with the required privilege should do this. Do this in SysAdmin??
- Create table views for employee, department, user in first release.
- Try to put common libs such as primefaces and poi on the application server instead of packaging them as part of the application to reduce its size. Uncheck the lib in the compile-time libraries to do this.
- Check for duplicate saving of objects that belong to lists. Start with legalmet.
- Impl searching by trn where applicable.
- Put dialogs inside of the main forms.
- Prepare project database/features list for each database software.
- Procedure for adding an entity class as a field to another entity class is: (1) Create and add new entity to the persistence file (2) Add reference to the entity to the parent class (3) Add the entity field to the table of the parent class in the form ENTITYNAME_ID, selecting the index option(4) use ALTER TABLE JOB DROP [FIELDNAME] to drop fields that were moved to new table/class. Other commands found at: http://db.apache.org/derby/docs/dev/ref/rrefsqlj81859.html
- Impl save without closing the box for relevant dialog boxes.
- Check out ISO/IEC 27001 (information security).
- Impl detecting compatibility mode for IE.
- Admin: use jasypt lib as a method for password encryption and authentication.
- Impl adding stickers to database
- See notes on inspection form: do regs 1-4, sampling inspection type, tie in sample collection form.
- Impl. track registration from time of request/application to completion: see Registration Tracking Sheet (Revised).xlsx: Fields to add to Registration class: assignedInspector, dateAssignedToInspector, assigned etc.
- Compliance db: Impl alert 8 weeks before registration due via popup or email to inspector and other relevant personnel eg supervisor.
- Standards db: Impl closing using “x” on standard dialog box.
- Standards db: Impl “DateTrack?” class that has a type, date, name etc and use it to for recording published, revised dates etc.
- Create table or configuration that gives info on cement types for a standard eg. Mandatory, Voluntary etc.??
- Monthly Report:
• # of weighing and measuring devices (what are the devices?) were targeted for 
verifications during the period under review (break out the devices into various 
categories and state the numbers for each category). 
Do not include # of calibrations in the number of verifications (state the difference). 
• # of premises visited for the purposes of testing and verifying weighing and measuring devices. 
• # of weighing and measuring devices that were tested and verified during the period under review. 
• % of those tested and verified that were in compliance with related metrological requirements? 
• # of investigations of suspected inaccurate measurements were conducted? 
(it is assumed that these investigations were as a result of complaints received 
from consumers and businesses who believed that they had received inaccurate measurements) 
• Types of weighing and measuring devices were these investigations conducted 
and the results of the investigations. 
• # of gas pump stickers that were issued during this financial year and no.  issued during the corresponding period last financial year.

## User Interface

- For job search let My Department jobs and not My Jobs be the default.
- Use tooltip component to get consistent tooltip across the application.
- Add chat feature. Allow person to add their image to their user profile.
- Add a favicon when one is designed.
- Make preferences and all other relevant dialogs external dialogs.
- Look at GA's design images on google docs for ideas.

## Sample Management

- Implement copy, delete etc. sample within the sample dialog?
- Add feature to add picture to job sample record by using the camera attached to the system

## Client Management

- Add priv to add/del contact/address.
- Creating a new contact using the edit but for "Most recent contact" does not seem to work when there are not contacts in the list. Check why this happens.
- Make the default contact type general.
- Add drop down list for titles in contact dialog. Look for this implementation somewhere in the code and 
use it
- For inactice client search do not sort the results
- Implement table pages and search box at top of the tables for addresses and contacts. Also show the number contacts/addresses found at top of table.
- Impl showing/hiding active/inactive addresses and contacts in client dialog.
- Let client search in clients tab search any part of client's name.
- Implement multiple selection in client tab so that the selected clients can be activated or deactivated for example.
- Change TRN to ID.
- Make ID mandatory? Put system option to validate?
- Allow add/edit of contact or client separately based on privilege and don't make a copy of the client as is current done.
- Implement cancel adding contact and address in dialog.
- Make sure job costing and service contract uses job billing address and the contact assigned to the job and NOT the client main contact.
- Ensure that overseas clients are not charged GCT. Indicate with field in client table. If the main/billing address is changed to something other than "local" the change client to international. Show alert when this is done?
- Implement 'Main' phone number as is done for 'Main' contact.
- Make TRN mandatory for local clients?
- Add country to address/contact details/record.
- Address type for newly added address does not change when selected in table. Fix!
- Enforce entry of certain data if not credit customer. Determine this data.
- Client support and services offered to clients are to be tracked.
- Add features that allows offices such as the Regional International Office to make recommendations to clients and do cost benefit analysis (more info to be obtained on this)
- The DBJ offers contracts/grants to companies so the progress/success of these companies need to tracked.
- Clients contacted for training should be tracked and their responses to training offered noted. For example, the reason why persons do not take a training course should be noted.
- Track clients that are offered training and certificates. May need a Training module for this.
- Reports on client that buy standards. May have to add a "Classification" in the Groupings section of a job to indicate this.
- Client complaint is to be associated with a job. The date of the complaint and description are to be recorded.
- Report of sales to clients grouped by department and lab are to be recorded (more details on this requirement are to be obtained).
- Get(index) is used to get the main phone and fax numbers for a contact. 
  This method may result in the returning of the right number for fax or phone 
  so use the type field to solve this.

## Job Entry and Editing

- Do not allow saving of edited job once it is marked completed.
- Do not flag job as completed until all group settings are selected.
- Let the subcontracted department be null for parent job and change the job numbering
  system and other business logic to reflect this fact. The use of "--" department
  should then be removed.
- Implement "Actions" menu in job tables that has "Edit", "Copy", "Subcontract". The privileges should be checked before doing so.
- Validate the sample dialog info before closing it.
- Check why GCT field shows yellow although it can be changed.
- When blank business office is selected and job saved the no message comes up. Fix!!
- Automatically add the person sub contracting a job as the contact person
- Add contact field to job. If not contact is assigned, assign the "main" contact to the job. Update service contract, job costing etc to reflect this.
- Add field for sample condition.
- Get rid of use of "--" to determine if a job is sub contracted cause selecting
  it "de-subcontracts" a job and turn it into a parent job.
- User is asked to save job when job dialog is closed even when its saved. Fix.
- Prevent job from being marked uncompleted once completed.
- Export sample condition(s) to service contract.
- Change label Department* to Parent department* when job is subcontracted.
- "Completed" most be removed by authorized person before a job can be edited.
- Implement sample copying inside sample dialog.
- Limit the number of samples/products that can be entered into sample/product quantity. Use system option for this.
- See how “retest jobs” can be handled without turning off auto job numbering.
- Make country of origin autocomplete in job sample dialog.
- Find why business office is being marked as in active. Check if done during job entry or update
- Look at the code in validateCurrentJob that deals with subcontracted department. Is it necessary to do all that check or just set it to "--" if it is null? May be false should never be returned.
- Find way to let cashier do all she needs to do in just the cashier view. Find out details from Cherrian.
- Implement assigning job to person only if they are in the department/subcontracted department for the job.
- When one attempts to mark a job without a final cost switch back work progress to the stored work progress?
- Job Modified dialog takes a while to go away when "no" is pressed and does not show the "busy" icon. When "yes' button is pressed "busy" icon shows and the dialog is dismissed fairly quickly
- Add TAT to expected start when job is entered???
- Job can be marked "unapproved" while it is still completed. Fix!
- Don't make TAT mandatory for non-earning job?
- Implement adding multiple sectors to one job?
- Implement job copying.
- Implement locking of opened job and alert others that it's opened. Implement some form of push notification.
- Make sure parent job is not marked completed until child job is complete.
- Impl use of camera to take pics of samples etc.
- See if entering deactivated departments can be prevented.
- Turnaround time given to client should show error if input is not a number. Also, that turnaround time number could be added to submission date upon first save but remains editable just in case.
- Process for job entry:
Request form is filled out and submitted through the website. This data would go straight to the database.
Notification system designed to signal creation of proforma which would pull data already in the system from the request form.
Database to interact with ACCPAC to signal payment or go ahead for job to be done if credit customer.
Necessary data transferred to the itinerary which can be viewed on the handheld device.
Once at the location, certain fields could automatically be populated on the field report instead of re-entering data already in the system.
The necessary verification checks (capacity and serial numbers for example) would be done and additional data (test results) entered.
Notification to be sent for certificates and job costing to be done which I thought would be as easy as a few clicks of the mouse since all the data would already be in the system/database.

## Classifications 

- Add parentSector to Sector class and add Sub-sector to Groupings tab. Sub-sectors would be those that have a parent sector.
- Implement Job Numbering/Sequencing interface that can be implemented for various organizations including the one used for the BSJ.

## Job Tracking

- Create Tracking/OperationsManager and use to manage job status and tracking.
- Status note field needs to be locked and a button be used to add updates to it. These updates would be added as new line (i.e. \n). And updates can therefore only be added but not deleted.
- Remove dateCostingCompleted, dateCostingApproved, depositDate, dateOfLastPayment and costingDate from where they should not because they are all in jobStatusAndTracking. Make sure they are not being used first.
- Steps to be tracked: (i) dispatch date to client (ii) delivery of report/sample to customer service (iii) assignment of job by team leader (iv) date customer was contacted (v) date email sent to client when job is completed. (vi) re-issue of report.

## Authentication & Authorization

- Impl "DC=bos,DC=local", "SAMAccountName=" as system option
- Impl "active" field in JMUser and use it when display users and during login.
- Add privileges to add/edit all system objects such as Classification.
- Let users tab filter active users, users that are authenticated and users that have recent activities.
- Add privileges for adding/editing contacts and addresses.
- Show message to the user if they login without being authenticated.
- Implement option to use LADP or some other authentication system.
- Add user/department privilege to add payments instead of just allowing finance department to do it.
- Add canEditInvoicingAndPayment privilege for user and not just dept.
- Add privilege to access the modules/units such and "Standard Compliance".
- Impl permission to create parent job only if person belongs to certain department/division (now it’s should be regulatory, customer service)
- Set user privileges when department privileges are set.
- Go through the GUI and enable/disable elements based on who has the privilege to edit field.
- Only allow selected persons to export service contract or prevent exportation once it was exported. Add privilege setting for this.
- Let constants such as JobManagerUser.CANEDITJOB be used in a method called user.getEffectivePrivilege(JobManagerUser.CANEDITJOB) to determine the overall user privilege based on department and user privilege.
- Impl deactivating users.